What’s your favorite animal?
My favorite animal is a dolphin.
One time, I was snorkeling in the ocean,
and a pod of dolphins came by.
And, of course, with the mask on,
I could see underwater.
And it was beautiful to watch
how they could swim
—how sleek they were in the water.
Then I watched as one of them
used his powerful tail
to shoot up to the surface of the water.
I lifted my head up
and watched him jump out of the water
and gracefully go right back in.
It was a sight I won’t forget.
I’m sure that if we talked
to each of you watching this,
you could tell some really good story
about your favorite animal.
Our beautiful planet Earth
is full of animals.
Of course, though,
for many of us in modern-day life,
we don’t get a chance
to interact with animals that much.
Most of our interaction with animals
is second hand
through books or videos.
In fact, the Internet is full of videos,
especially of cats.
People share these videos.
Why?
Because it makes them smile.
They enjoy watching them.
In fact, many of you are probably thinking
of some video you just watched about animals.
Clearly, Jehovah created animals
with qualities to bring us joy,
to make us happy.
Watching them in person or in video
can cultivate our interest.
They can entertain us
and make us feel good.
We see Jehovah’s sense of humor
in how the animals interact
and play with one another.
And we can also learn lessons
from the animals.
Proverbs 6:6 is an example of that.
Proverbs 6:6:
“Go to the ant, you lazy one;
observe its ways and become wise.”
I can remember as a young boy,
I was fascinated with ants
—so many of them,
and yet they all knew what to do.
And they could carry these really big leaves
and other things for their size.
It was amazing to see what they could do
—even the building of their tunnels.
As children, many of us
were interested in animals
—fascinated with them.
However, as we got older,
we became more fascinated with technology
or things that man has made.
But really the things that man has made
cannot compare to the things
Jehovah has made,
especially the animals.
The design and wonder you feel
when you watch your favorite animal
is in a category all by itself.
Now in the following video,
we’re going to see
some really beautiful animals.
Maybe you will see your favorite animal.
Animals fascinate us.
We marvel at their speed,
their agility,
and their strength.
Their beauty and behavior
are a pleasure to watch.
Like us, they play.
Some even dance!
They are industrious.
A beaver dam can extend hundreds of meters.
Some can even be seen from space!
When we observe animals,
we learn more about the Creator.
Their instinctive wisdom reveals his wisdom.
He is caring and generous.
And he is a happy God.
Animals fascinate us
because we are made in God’s image.
We enjoy what He enjoys,
especially our earth and its amazing animals.
They are his gift to us.
“Let us make man in our image,
“according to our likeness,
“and let them have in subjection
“the fish of the sea
“and the flying creatures of the heavens
“and the domestic animals
and all the earth.”
Were you and the others with you
watching that video smiling
or maybe even laughing a little bit
when you saw the little dog
jumping back and forth?
You see, the design of animals
to bring us joy
is not an evolutionary accident.
Jehovah and Jesus, his “master worker,”
found joy in creating and designing
animal life
to delight us.
Now, can you imagine Jehovah and Jesus
discussing designing an elephant?
The elephant trunk is a nose,
it’s an arm,
it’s a showerhead,
it’s a straw,
and it can even be a snorkel.
Did you know that their feet
are so well-padded
that you can hardly hear them coming?
Imagine Jehovah and Jesus
making this huge elephant and saying,
“We’re going to make it really quiet.”
Or can you imagine what the angels thought
when they first saw a lemur dancing
or a hummingbird hovering in the air
or a little puppy chasing its tail?
Or can you imagine being Adam,
the first human being,
amongst all of these animals?
How Adam must have thrilled
to watch the animals and name them!
What would you have called an animal
with a funny hump on its back
or a bird that could mimic
the sounds you made
or a lizard that could change colors,
maybe even looking at it as it moved,
changing colors, wondering,
‘How did it do that?’
Jehovah assigned Adam
to not only name the animals
but to care for them.
Let’s read the scripture
that was highlighted in our video
at Genesis 1:26.
Genesis 1:26:
“Then God said:
‘Let us make man in our image,
“‘according to our likeness,
“‘and let them have in subjection
the fish of the sea
“‘and the flying creatures of the heavens
“‘and the domestic animals
and all the earth
and every creeping animal
that is moving on the earth.’”
Yes, Jehovah God wanted Adam
and his descendants
—that’s us—
to take care of the animals
and to take delight in them.
If we take time to enjoy animal life,
we can make
some very fascinating discoveries.
Did you see in the video
the lemurs of Madagascar?
Do you know
how many varieties of lemurs there are?
Do you know what lemurs eat?
Have you ever seen lemurs play?
I have.
And I guarantee you,
you will enjoy it and smile when you do.
I made one discovery about dolphins.
Dolphins can blow under water
a perfect circle of air,
and then they like to play with it afterward.
The first time I saw that video,
I could hardly believe my eyes.
Friends, today we can only imagine
what it will be like in the future Paradise
when we can really enjoy animal life
the way Jehovah truly intended.
In review, this symposium
has been about Jehovah’s creative works
—exquisite flowers,
delicious food,
beautiful colors,
our well-designed bodies,
delightful sounds,
and fascinating animals
—all of which convince us
that Jehovah wants us to enjoy life.
At a time when many people
are not finding meaning or joy
in the things that man has made,
observe and rejoice in the gift of the things
that Jehovah has made
and given to us.
Make them a source of true joy in your life.